So, we hit the play button.
Nothing happened.
It's because we need to add some
additional components to our game objects.
So, now we're going to work on
adding these components and
we're gonna work on player input.
So in order to add player input,
we need to first add a couple of
components to the player game object.
And some of them are built into Unity,
some of them are gonna write ourselves.
So the first one is what's
called a rigid body.
So our spheres and the cube already
had those collider components
that you saw that's so that physics,
collisions can actually be detected.
But they don't actually
have a mass to them.
They don't actually have anything
that's gonna interact with the gravity
that is in a Unity scene.
So we need to add a Rigidbody component so
that Unity knows this
is something that actually needs to
drop and, roll around and interact.
Then we'll add a player input component,
which is part of the input system package.
And that will allow us
to invoke input events.
Have callbacks for those and
actually interact with some of
the scripts that we're going to write.
And then we're going to
write two custom scripts or
two custom components I should say,
that will add to the player game object.
One is going to be called
rolling movement, and
the other is going to be
called player movement.
And we'll see why When we get to those.
So let's go back to Unity.
And let's just add
the built-in components first.
So in the hierarchy,
I have the player game object selected.
That's the sphere that we created that
in the game view is off scene, but
in the same view,
if I hit F Is right here?
And down here at the bottom in
the inspector with the player game object
selected I'm going to
choose Add Component.
And do we want to add a rigid body so
I could dig through
the menus here I could go to physics and
find rigid body here or
you can just type at the top and
it will find things much faster.
That's usually how I add component
because there are lots of built in
components in Unity.
So lets add a Rigidbody,
don't add a Rigidbody 2D, that's for
2D games, this is a 3D game so
we want a normal Rigidbody.
And then on Rigidbody,
we are gonna set a couple
of its properties so
it has some mass of 1 by default.
We actually want a mass of 0.5.
And this is something interesting that
you can play with and in the game,
after we've built everything if you
want to see what, different masses to
the spheres might be like or what
different movement speeds might be like
it's a way that you can tune the game
to behave differently than it does.
The way we're going to build it.
Next we're going to change
drag to a value of 2.
And that does kind of
what the name implies.
It simulates air resistance.
So that's going to kind of allow these
spheres to move a little bit more
along kind of an S curve, as things speed
up and slow down, it'll look better.
And then the last thing we're gonna change
on this rigid body is the interpolation.
So this is a little bit more advanced.
It's something we do need to change here
we're going to change the value of
interpolate from none to interpolate.
And that just kind of changes.
Basically the way that objects move
from one physics tick to the next or
one physics update to the next.
It changes how things well, yeah, are
interpolated from one update to another.
So we're just going to change
interpolate to interpolate.
[LAUGH] And
that will kind of smooth things out.
It'll make the movement
look a lot smoother.
So next we need to add another
component called player input.
So if I go down here and
choose add component and
type in player input,
you should see it's right there.
I'll choose that.
And we want to do two things here.
First, player input needs
a set of actions and
I've actually already
created an actions asset.
So that's not something that
we're going to do ourselves.
Input is a very deep topic, but
I have an actions asset and
you'll see that there's this field here.
There's a little kind of
circled target icon next to it.
If I click that,
it will bring up a selection window and
I can choose things that are in the scene.
There's no action assets in
the scene to choose from.
Or [COUGH] you can choose from assets.
So you can choose from the actual folder
that you see in the project window here,
and I want to choose
the one called gameplay.
It's the only option.
If you double click that it
will add that actions asset and
now if I actually double click on that
this isn't something you need to do, but
if you're curious you can double click
the actions asset and it will show you
this window, which is where I've already
set up all of the actions for the game.
So we have this move action.
I've tied that to WASD and
that is how we're going to
get keyboard events flowing
into our callback methods
that will actually drive
this sphere around.
And then I also have a restart button so
on the keyboard I've tied
that to the space bar.
But I've tested this out once,
but theoretically,
if you plug in a gamepad you
can also play with the gamepad.
You can use the left stick to move
the sphere around and you can use
the south button on the gamepad which
is like I wanna say like X on Xbox and
I think it's also X on PlayStation I'm not
sure but it's the button at the bottom.
So that's the asset that we're adding
to the player input component.
I said there were two things we
wanted to do here the other thing
is we want to change the behavior
to invoke Unity events.
And that will bring up this menu here.
And you saw some of the actions that
I had already set up like move and
restart and when we're scripting,
we will add some callback to these events.
So those are the two things we need to do.
To player input we need to
add that actions asset and
we also need to change the behavior
to invoke Unity events